>> Jon Kuperman: For the next thing,
we'll go to the Exercises, and
we'll go to Lighthouse, and
we will see this very slow page.
And yeah, please go ahead and
run a Lighthouse audit on this.
You've sort of got two
different options here.
If you'd like to just kind of loosely
follow along, run the Lighthouse audit.
And then just kind of read
through some of the things and
make sure you understand and
internalize them.
If you have the code running locally,
please feel free to go ahead and
change the source code,
according to the suggestions.
And then reload the page and
see if you can get your Lighthouse scores
at least up into the green somewhere.
>> Speaker 2: How would you compare
Lighthouse to PageSpeed Insights?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
that's a great question.
So I think that, in many ways, Lighthouse
is the new and reimagined version.
I think that if you were to go with one,
going with Lighthouse would be great.
In a lot of ways, PageSpeed Insights
is a subset of the Lighthouse rule set.
I do think that if you have a current
workflow, like a CI workflow with
PageSpeed Insights, that's excellent,
that's really great.
I don't think there's a big
call to migrate over, but
if you were starting something new,
I would go with Lighthouse.
It's got a lot more contributors,
it's a lot more open and established, and
I think it's really well thought out.
But it's one of those things I
would not recommend switching for
the sake of switching.
If you've got a workflow that's set up
with PageSpeed Insights, that's great.
>> Jon Kuperman: Cool, yeah, I wanted to
give a call-out here for this exercise.
And then going forward, I think there's
slightly more value you get out of
running the code locally, whereas
the previous exercises were identical.
So just another call-out if you
wanna go here and grab this and
then just run it with
a simple HTTP server.
It can be a little bit more
fun as you're going through.
Again, completely optional, feel free to
use masteringdevtools.com, but if you
wanna really get in there and mess around
with stuff, local can be a bit more fun.
So cool, let's run through this together.
It's a very tricky balance making
the most annoying site I can, but
then also knowing that I'll have to be
live in front of a lot of people and
not lose my cool while trying
to mess with the site.
Maybe I went a little overboard on
annoyance with all these pop-ups.
But okay, so
we'll analyze page load, let it go.
It's quite a lot over these requests.
No, just do what you want, just do it.
Okay, great, so we did pretty poorly.
Boy, [LAUGH] yeah, I saw,
I can't remember where it landed.
There was a cool discussion about
all these pop-ups for location and
all these different permissions
that were Chrome, I think was like,
we wanna make it more punishing.
Where if you click no, then you as an app
developer have lost your opportunity,
you can't pop it up again, basically.
I don't know if that went through or
not, encouraging you to be like,
wait until I hit open map and
then ask for my location, don't just ask.
But anyway, I digress.
Okay, so
we did pretty poorly on these things, but
I think it's a cool opportunity to look
through a whole variety of things that may
have gone wrong.
How did people find it?
Was it somewhat digestible as
you were kinda clicking through?
Did the messages make sense?
I think they've done a really
excellent job with that.
So yeah, I think this is good.
So we can see right away,
the first paint took too long.
We didn't have anything blocking,
no layout shifts, which is nice, but
just in general,
we did very poorly on the speed index.
And then if we wanna drill down into why,
we can start really
looking at these things.
So largest contentful paint,
we can see here.
And this is the element that was given
the largest contentful paint, and
we can see that it took a long time.
So we can kind of start
going through these and
kind of putting together an understanding
of why this might be so off.
So we can see there's a lot of JavaScript,
if we minified it,
we would save 56 kilobytes.
So that's important, that's like
gonna be blocking as it's parsing and
things like that.
Images are not in next-gen formats.
So we can see here that we've got
this big image of the cat here.
And it looks like the cat is a,
it doesn't say what the format is.
Images, it says what's better, I guess-.
>> Speaker 2: It's a JPEG.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, right,
I guess I was surprised it doesn't say.
But we can go over to the Network tab and
I think we could do a refresh there and
see that it's a JPEG and
see that there are better formats
out there than JPEG like WebP.
So yeah, so that's cool, so
we've got too much JavaScript.
We've got a big image,
we've got no caching policies,
we've got a bunch of unused JavaScript,
which I always find a really cool thing.
Caveats here, so I guess a few years ago,
DevTools added this unused concept, right?
So they have unused JavaScript,
unused CSS, and that's really great,
because I think we can accidentally ship
a bunch of stuff, especially with CSS.
Sometimes I look at what's unused,
I'm like, yeah,
I totally got rid of all those elements.
But the important thing for long-lived
applications is It might be unused now,
but it doesn't mean it's
always going to be unused.
So you can't necessarily delete
unused CSS because what if you have
a modal that pops up later during a
workflow and that's what needs it styled?
So you do need to be context-aware when
you're looking at these unused things.
That being said,
if you don't need it till later,
then you could defer the bundle
itself from loading too, right?
You could have that JavaScript and
CSS bundle.
So it does get a little bit tricky, but
I think unused is a very good metric.
It just doesn't mean you can just delete
anything that's marked unused and be okay.
Cool, so yeah, so basically I think
we found some really good stuff here,
a ton of JavaScript, too big of an image,
the image is in a bad format.
We get this kind of nice picture,
where the first paint was blocked for
a really long time.
That being said,
there weren't any layout shifts, and
we were interactive right
away after we loaded.
So that's 65 out of 100,
I think that puts us in an okay spot.
Accessibility, did really badly.
Mostly, we have these things, we have
this aria-hidden on the document body,
meaning the whole document won't
be accessible to screen readers.
That's a real problem.
And then we have these aria-hidden
elements that have descendants that
are meant to be focused.
So we're basically saying, you can't focus
on these things, and later, we're saying,
this needs to be focusable.
So again, this gets covered a lot more
in-depth in my accessibility course, but
we could do some really nice things.
We go through the code and
we could remove these aria-hidden tags,
which probably aren't doing us any favors.
We also have the document with no title
element, so we don't have a title up here
in the head for the screen reader to
read out what document you're on.
So we could probably fix those
things in three minutes and
get some really nice gains out of that.
Moving on to best practices,
we've got this thing that it catches,
wherever you prevent users from
pasting into input fields.
Remember this from our essential one.
We also don't have a meta viewport.
And again, if you're curious about these
things, why do we need this meta viewport,
we can see that it basically helps your
app be optimized for mobile screens.
So it can provide a really big boost to
your app's loading time if you add these
these viewport tags,
and you can click through here to
see a bunch more information on it.
And similarly, for SEO,
we don't have the title element.
I think this is an important caveat here,
cuz I do a lot of teaching on performance,
I do a lot of teaching on
accessibility and the crossovers.
Being good at one, or helping your website
with one, helps it with the other so
often, which I find really nice.
So thinking about it for an example,
adding a simple title element crosses over
the threshold between SEO and
accessibility.
So accessibility for the screen reader
reading what document you're on, and
SEO for
the search result knowing what to display.
But this is similarly true, for
example, keyboard shortcuts or
any kind of partial loading,
where something comes in later.
For an accessibility standpoint,
you can add aria attributes and
have the document announce that
an image has just loaded in.
And from a performance standpoint,
you cannot load that image immediately
cuz you don't need it yet.
And so I find that the crossover between
these things is very pleasant a lot
of times.
Where if you make your
website very SEO optimized,
you'll often get performance and
accessibility wins just by virtue
of doing that, and
vice versa when you do a full audit.
Another one's semantic HTML, that can be
faster cuz it has to do less laying out
and it can also be more accessible.
That's another one of switching
from divs with click handlers and
all this JavaScript to a button,
something like that,
can give you all these different ways,
which I think is kind of nice.
So yeah, we don't have our meta
description, we don't have our title.
So yeah, hopefully this one went well.
This is a really nice starting place,
just go hit your app with Lighthouse,
get an initial idea.
Does anybody have any Lighthouse
questions before we move on?
>> Speaker 2: Looks like the unused
JavaScript shows the particularly large
JavaScript files in their modules,
is there a way to see that total list of
unused JavaScript rather
than just the top ones?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so
let me actually look into this,
because there used to
be quite a cool thing.
This might take me a minute to find.
>> Jon Kuperman: There is quite a cool,
>> Jon Kuperman: Yes, this.
So check this out,
let me make sure it's the right thing
before I show you how to get there.
>> Jon Kuperman: Maybe this
isn't what I thought it was.
Yeah, okay, so here,
does this only work with CSS?
>> Jon Kuperman: Give me a second
here to kind of figure things out.
There's a really nice workflow.
Yeah, so okay, let me back it up then,
now I can act all polished about this.
Yeah, so this is great.
So the Lighthouse audit can give you
this basic concept of unused, and
it'll show you the largest
ones that are unused.
Because the point of Lighthouse is trying
to get you the lowest hanging fruit to get
your site faster.
But the Chrome DevTools actually
provides a really nice,
deep insight into unused code,
both JavaScript and CSS.
And in order to get there,
you can open up the DevTools,
hit Escape to open up
this little subpanel.
Then you can click on the hamburger menu,
you can click into Coverage.
And then when you click into Coverage, you
can do another refresh of your website.
And what this will do is it'll list all
of your CSS and all of your JavaScript.
As well as when you click on one,
it will show you in the Sources tab
what is used and what is unused.
And so
it'll show you these big blocks of red,
like this page doesn't have an image
on it, so this image CSS is unused.
Similarly, if we had anything here,
I think we use 100%, but
you basically can get this really
granular view of each file.
Which type it is, how big it is in total,
how much of that is unused, and
then a little visualizer of it.
Does this make sense as a concept?
So having a more deep dive into out of
my CSS, 50% is unused on this page,
out of my JavaScript, 0% is unused.
So you can really see what ran and
what didn't.
>> Speaker 3: How did you
get to that coverage page?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so let's do it
one more time cuz it's a bit sneaky.
So from any page in the DevTools that
you have open, you can hit Escape,
which should pop open this
little subconsole here.
And then from there,
you get this hamburger menu,
which has a bunch of really cool stuff.
We will cover this at the end,
under experiments, but
we has a bunch of cool stuff here,
one of them being Coverage.
And so now, with this selected,
whenever you hit Escape, on and off,
you'll always have access.
So you can kind of redesign your
little bottom tab to have whatever
you want on it.
But this is really great cuz you can
really dive in, you can be like, okay,
what is being hit, what is not being
hit in all my JavaScript and CSS?
>> Speaker 4: Sometimes if I
want to go to the website,
I only use the one style CSS.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: And sometimes you can go
to some page who don't use a lot of-
>> Jon Kuperman: 100%, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So
if I see something like that,
it's better to have a file for CSS or-
>> Jon Kuperman: I don't think so,
it's a great question, because it's
like these tools are useful but
they're also deceptive.
So yeah, he's saying, you imagine you
have two pages, right, one and two, and
you have one style.css, which has all
the style that you need for both pages.
So you go to page one and
you look at coverage and
it's like half of this is unused but it is
used, it's just used on the other page.
So kind of should you break up your
styling by page or is that not necessary?
I think it's like you have to
make a personal choice on.
I think if you have a tremendous amount
of styling and a lot of pages that people
spend a long time on, it could be
beneficial to bundle each page so
that each page only has the JavaScript and
CSS it needs.
I think a lot of the time,
you're completely fine with a single
style sheet for your entire application.
I do think it's worth considering,
though, I think you should think
about how much you would save.
So let's say we had one style sheet,
it was 100 kilobytes for two pages, and
they're 50/50.
I think it's probably worth it to break
it up to save the user from downloading
50 kilobytes each time.
If it's small amount or there's a lot of
shared code, then probably not worth it.
I know that's a hand wavy answer, but
I think I wouldn't necessarily
jump to making chunks, but
I would consider it as a tool in your
toolkit cuz it could be worth it.